# Digital Cookbook Vision Statement
## title 
Recip-E
## Summary
The Recip-E app will allow users to create and manage a digital cookbook on their personal devices. The app’s main purpose is to replace all other recipe sources, such as index cards, cookbooks, and modern technologies, for chefs of every skill level and age range.
Users will be able to see a list of ingredients, necessary steps, and a picture, if available. Recip-E will allow users to add recipes by writing their own or receiving a shared recipe from another user. Additionally, a few existing default recipes will be available for the users to browse through when they begin. Correspondingly, users will be able to remove recipes, including the default recipes, in the same idea that people decide to retire old, outdated cookbooks.
Undoubtedly, users will want to use this app because it provides easy access to all of their recipes in one convenient and centralized place. It will save them the trouble of aimlessly flipping through multiple cookbooks and other sources, making meal planning and entertaining easier. Furthermore, the app will be a handy quick reference for professional chefs or home cooks who want to double-check an ingredient or step. Recip-E is also the perfect go to for beginners who are starting from scratch and have no idea on where to begin with a recipe.

## Features 
This app will help people downsize their paper cookbook collection by digitising their recipes because lots of people are following the minimalist trend these days. It can help preserve family recipes for future generations. Users will not be bound by paper and pen and will be able to record recipes where they are and whenever they like – Grandma’s house, on a road trip with friends, on a tropical vacation, jotting something down just before bedtime, etc.
The app will also be a useful alternative for people who prefer to have digital copies instead of hard copies. In these modern times, many people are choosing to go paper-free, and this app will let them do just that. In the same vein, the app will help save trees by preventing the need to print or photocopy recipes for personal copies or sharing. I mean who wants to keep hundreds of physical copies in this modern age?
The app will allow for faster and easier sharing of recipes, instead of handwriting out and physically sending or sending a difficult-to-use picture of dubious quality.

## Success criteria
The app’s success will be measured by several criteria. Firstly, a targeted user survey will provide feedback on the overall usability of the app. We can use this feedback to enhance the user experience. Next, the overall number of users and any ratings volunteered by said users will indicate how widely adopted the app is. In addition, the average number of recipes per user will indicate ­­­­­the app’s general usage. For example, a high average will imply that users are generally using the app to digitize their recipe collections, as intended, while a low number will imply that perhaps users are only using the app to preserve and/or share a few core recipes. Finally, the average number of times users open the app daily will indicate how successful the app has been in replacing other recipe sources.

